[Music]
um
yeah so to start i'm uh my name is reed
anderson i work here at panadoc i'm a
senior account executive
over on the the enterprise side of
things i've been here
four years and uh really excited to show
you guys what we have today
my name is megan conrad i'm one of the
account executives on the commercial
team at pandadoc
prior to coming to pandadoc i worked in
the realm of human capital management
software
and property management so both areas
where
negotiations have had to take place and
that'll actually be the topic of today's
presentation
um the art of sas negotiations so free
we want to just hop right into it
so today's agenda just on a high level
overview is we're going to go over the
objection handling
framework um act out a scenario a role
play between reid and i
and then also discuss some different
negotiation levers that can be used in
your objection handling
uh the whole agenda is there on the
screen for you i'm not going to read it
word for word
but there you go so with regards to
objection handling framework
what we have on the screen here is two
different situations
what happens now is how most people
negotiate
so typically what happens is we get down
to the that end of the deal
and our prospect asks for something and
we give
and and that's in the hopes of securing
that deal and bringing that in
and then inevitably our prospect asks
for more i'm sure everyone in this room
or
on this webinar has been in that
situation and
i know i personally have made the
mistake of getting that that sales
breath for lack of a better term and
giving more again in hopes of that deal
coming across the finish line
now what we really want to do is move
towards how panadoc
handles negotiation and that's what's
highlighted here
in under a perfect world where we've got
our negotiation ask
and instead of just going ahead and just
giving to them
we want to take the time to understand
that objection
and respond accordingly so the biggest
difference between the two
is again taking the time to acknowledge
and understand your prospect
and showing empathy and really just
being aware
of the prospects uh objection and where
they're coming from and their point of
view
and so another really another way to
look at it is what needs to happen is
there needs to be a mindshift mindset
shift
from overcoming uh to understanding
so again as mentioned the way most
people look at objection handling is
that they are
viewing an objection as something that
they need to overcome
now while that is true in a sense uh
this is actually harmful because this is
telling your prospect that
your objection uh is not true and that
it's not necessarily
valid at least in your eyes instead the
idea is that we need to be curious
double click into what they're giving
us and and really get to the root of
that objection
so the idea is to use a method that um
which we'll
highlight here in another slide is to
use a method that allows that prospect
to share their true thoughts
and then that said sometimes you're
going to get objections that are
entirely valid and entirely real that
cannot be overcome
however the the framework we're about to
highlight will at least help you get to
the true root cause on if that's
actually the case or not
so objection handling steps so what
we've highlighted here are a couple of
steps
that you can use in your negotiations uh
some of these items may be familiar to
you from some of the chris boss's
trainings
um that's definitely some of the
ideology we
follow here at pandadoc so your prospect
gives you an objection
what you want to do is you want to take
the time to pause
you want to mirror them again empathize
with them um just being aware of that
perspective
isolate that objection bounce a couple
ideas off of them
reframe and then a bucket tip now i see
um there's this list of objections here
in a list of tips here
i think it's probably best highlighted
in a role play if reid wouldn't mind
pulling that one up and we'll we'll
run through that in real time yeah
definitely
now reed in this instance would you mind
being my prospect
i i'd be glad to i'm not not often on
the other side of the table
so let's uh let's give it a shot megan
the price is too high
the price is too high yeah i
i brought it to my boss but they uh i'm
just gonna be honest i shot it down
immediately
after looking at that price tag okay
fair enough i mean reid it sounds like a
reasonable price is a top piece of
criteria for you and your team when it
comes down to making a comfortable
decision
that's uh yeah that's fair to say if we
could somehow resolve your team's
concerns over price would we be moving
forward today
i i would definitely have to bring it
back but it wouldn't hurt
well in that case would you mind if i
bounce a couple ideas off of you
go right ahead hit me okay so read just
to be fully transparent with you
the price of our solution is the way it
is because the market has determined it
is worth that amount
we sell a very large percentage of our
business off of the website at full
price with absolutely
no sales intervention that being said i
also want to make sure that your team is
comfortable with the price for the
solution we are providing
um would it be worth determining
together if your investment at this
price
would get you a positive return and then
work together on getting
uh the best possible price for your team
it's worth a try certainly
and with that being said what else would
we have to
address before moving forward with the
business case and final contract
execution
that would be the the last item i think
we'd uh be ready to move forward then
okay
perfect thank you for that reid so a few
things that i do want to highlight here
and on this objection and role play
scenario we do have the different steps
highlighted in orange off of each uh
one thing at least i know i personally
as i've learned this framework
is where i where we see this reframe uh
oftentimes one's mind thinks we
automatically
need to jump into an roi calculator or
something that's going to immediately
overcome that
and i know a question that comes up
often is why are we doing this reframe
before the bucket tip
now the reason we're doing this before
the bucket tip is because we want to see
if the idea of what we refrained and the
idea that i presented
actually landed with that individual um
because if it didn't land they're gonna
give me another objection when i do that
bucket tip
and we're gonna get to the root cause of
okay well what's the true objection here
why
why are we not moving forward today and
then
um just making sure we are having
everything out on the table so we can
actually
bring that deal in sooner um rather than
later
definitely that's a really well put
megan and i would just add one thing
to this this framework it uh
shouldn't i don't think we should view
it as a silver bullet to overcoming or
dealing with an objection that you
encounter
it's merely gonna give you the best
chance of doing that and at the very
least
like megan had said you're going to know
100 where you're
where your deal is so i'm just keeping
that in mind and really doubling down on
the mindset part
not just reading through a talk track
but genuinely
wanting to understand what the objection
is
i think will help and help this talk
track go a long way
absolutely i couldn't agree more you
want to isolate
not just label exactly
all right so moving on
all right so negotiating levers
we're going to hopefully give you all
some control back
by sharing some some levers that we use
pretty condom commonly
over at panadoc and there are five of
them
i'll hit on those number one we have
just kind of standard a lot of people
will go to this
trading discounts on licenses so you can
trade for
for anything anything that your your
manager would approve
um so it might be limited in that
respect but three common things that
that will trade for megan and i every
single day
is one we want to help our marketing
team out
so we'll often trade a discount for say
a case study
or some kind of marketing collateral
from them six months down the line
if they're still a happy customer i'm
perfectly happy giving them a discount
out of the gate if they'll you know
give us a kind of a case study down the
line that we can then leverage
on our website for example another thing
would be referrals
so you can just ask them if they have
anyone in their network who could
you know benefit similarly from whatever
it is you're offering
and they can refer you to those people
again that's gonna
boost your pipe in the way of like new
leads and opportunities
so we're always willing to trade off a
little bit
in that way and also reference calls
you can have something in your back
pocket if there's a deal in the future
and they need to call on a current
client you can have some of those in
your back pocket so you're not having to
scramble
and try to you know find a reference
call
you know if you only have a couple days
for example
so those are three things case studies
referrals and and references
lever number two you know everyone most
people here i'm assuming are in sas
so that's a lot of subscriptions out
there
i usually on when it comes to discounts
i'll try and discount any kind of
any kind of one-time services first
because that's not going to impact the
the recurring revenue the mrr the arr
so we always sell onboarding with our
packages i'll typically try and shave
off a little bit there before
you know touching the licenses or any
kind of referring uh recurring
fee that is lever number three
would be social proof with clients
so mention this in lever number one but
this would be you know using a current
client as a way of
helping someone get to that point where
they're more comfortable
with your solution and number three i
think this is where
understanding and objection becomes
really important because if you're just
trying to overcome
and you're at the finish line you're
trying to overcome something and you
think it's a price issue
but really they just need that extra
reassurance that you're the right
solution maybe uh just talking with a
current client would suffice
and if you're trying to just shave off
money or discounts it's gonna
you know fall on deaf ears and and delay
things at the
at the best number four
this is again along the theme of
understanding and objection
if it is a price objection it might not
necessarily be the absolute price
or the the licenses it could be the the
payment schedule so it could be the
terms of the payment
maybe splitting those up into
semi-annual
or quarterly would actually be more
friendly with their budget than you know
giving a 30
discount so you again that's where
understanding
becomes ultra important because
otherwise you're going to be offering
things
that aren't going to help them
lastly lever 5 bringing in sales
leadership
so this would be more of an appeal
to authority bringing in your manager
or director on a call to
basically try to communicate hey the
buck stops here i've looped in my
superiors
let's try to work out a deal and try to
minimize the amount
of back and forth that's actually
happening during the the negotiation
so that's all five there and megan i'd
be curious to hear i
i know which ones i typically go to
as far as the levers go do you uh are
you using one of these more
than the others it really depends for me
reid
i think the default for most reps is to
create a discount because it's they hear
price and that's that's the objection i
think it's a really important note that
you made where
price may not be that absolute objection
it could be hey we don't have that in
our budget this year well
great news we're at the end of the year
we can maybe adjust our payment terms
where
you can now pull this out of next year's
budget yet still sign the contract today
and move forward
and so at least at this point of the
year i find all having an alternative
payment schedule
is definitely beneficial and then i'm
just i love
using social proof with clients and
reference calls um
both in the fact where if we are going
for a discount
having my prospect commit to x number of
reference calls down the road because
i know that's going to be benefiting me
in deals beyond this one
as well as having someone a success
story being shared with this
particular prospect again just to
further drive the value
um so we're not just getting into some
kind of price
war forsakes me not having
provided enough value during the sales
process
that's awesome yeah i like with the with
the social proof if you can get those
reference calls
as use that lever and then you have
those in the future if you need to
use that to close a deal so you really
just become a
you know almost self-sustaining at that
point just keep getting more references
using them and it's kind of a virtuous
circle
um so let's uh let's move on we got some
more stuff for
everyone somepony
did we lose reid there megan can you
hear him i was about to say i read
you're frozen here so
give it a shot again reid i think we can
see you now gotcha okay
you can hear me good to go
to your deals and when it comes to
negotiating
what you're doing here obviously is
you're you're trading a bigger discount
or some kind of commitment on their end
for
a bigger commitment for them signing up
for two or three years
rather than one so this right here is a
talk track that
our team has used to really good effect
to introduce the idea
of a two-year to understand if that
would even be
be possible by re go through the whole
rig of the role of negotiating
and working out price so it'll save them
that time in the future
and i obviously everyone can screenshot
this if you want to do it i'm not going
to run through the whole thing but
the first two questions are pretty
critical are you looking for a long-term
solution
and then if they are they usually are
great
and you don't want to have to
re-evaluate all over again next year
this is a way of reframing that they may
not have thought about
all the investment that they're gonna
have to do in 365 days
so bringing that up you'd be surprised
how many folks are actually willing to
to make that bigger commitment
something to add here reed at least one
thing that i found successful
this very much varies from deal to deal
and the level of software buyer that you
are working with
um but oftentimes even just starting
with that two-year deal
um and saying like almost presenting
that as the standard
as most at least in my experience most
well-versed educated experienced
software buyers
are already looking at longer term deals
anyways almost presenting this as the
standard
and then when you are presenting that
per se annual contract
that's actually something that they're
like oh the price actually isn't so bad
anymore or
i actually like these terms better or at
the end of the day you get a
two-year deal out of it that's a really
good point i think yeah if you present
the pricing first obviously it's gonna
be a much
bigger price tag potentially twice as
much so they get anchored to that
and suddenly your one year doesn't look
so bad anymore
all right so next here we have uh
so email overlays with uh with a manager
so this kind of jives with lever number
five
where we were if you remember bringing
in some kind of authority figure like a
manager a director
a cfo and i when we do that here it's
not just on calls
to have that authority figure there in
the background or to be able to talk
we'll actually and what i often do is
i'll show my prospect to whoever i'm
talking with
what's going on behind the scenes when
it comes to me getting approval for
things
so this is an actual email chain with my
sales director
where i give him the full scope of
things what the situation is
and i say you know what can we do here
in the way of uh
pricing and then i i'll share this with
my prospects i'll either forward the
email chain right before a meeting
or take screenshots for that proof that
hey
you know i want to bat for you or this
is you know where the buck stops
this is my sales director this is what
he said we could do to again
try to minimize the amount of back and
forth and i think being
working more enterprise type deals going
up market a lot of
you know more back and forth usually
happens this is one way of curtailing
that
and really shorting shortening your your
sales cycle
all right so that's what we that's what
we have
for you today's top takeaways i'd say
top three
first we want to understand objections
we don't want to
overcome them because not all of them
can be overcome
and you know a lot of the things that
you say are probably going to fall on
deaf ear
deaf ears if that's your mentality
number two was the the framework for the
the talk track and if we all can
remember that we've got all the letters
here but it was pause
mirror empathize isolate
idea bounce that's the b reframe
and then the bucket tip to make sure
you're actually
addressing the the correct objection and
number three is is
practice your levers to take control
during negotiation so
you want to practice these things before
you go live
we do a lot of role plays at panadoc
weekly
i mean a daily basis pretty much so you
really want to
get those dry runs the the practice
sessions in before
talking to actual prospects cool great
job guys
um travis over here from the panadoc
team
i wanted to just jump in while we've got
a minute or two left here
and address one of the questions that
came in through the chat
teresa asked a great question any tips
on overcoming
timing objections as in we're interested
in moving forward
but won't need this for a few months
any good ways for getting someone to
sign a contract to start later
um megan i'll start with you what are
what are your thoughts on them how would
you maybe handle that
yeah absolutely i think that's a very
common objection given that the time of
year right now with the holidays coming
up and things like that
i know one of the items i spoke about
earlier
is alternative payment terms so perhaps
a delayed start date
again this will be vary from uh org to
org
i know with it with pandadoc what our
limitations
are and how far out i can start my my
prospect with our service
so i always have that in the back of my
head and have that available as a lever
but with regards to timing objections um
one thing that i like to find is digging
a bit deeper into
that because if i've done all of my
discovery properly and i'm
truly double clicking into that um it's
not necessarily always
an exact just true timing objection it
may be that there are other have other
projects going on
it may be that they're just worried
about how long it's going to take to
onboard an implementation
um or things like that at some point uh
hopefully
at the beginning of your your sales
conversations they have shared with you
um kind of why you're speaking now and
if you're not digging into that now
um i would highly recommend that um
because even if someone input like puts
a demo request in
and you're wanting to meet with them
like there's a reason they did that
today and not two weeks ago or two
months from now
so digging it deeper into that and then
working backwards i would ask them
what what's your ideal start date you
say
we don't need this for a few months so
when would you need that
have them give you that answer and then
work backwards and almost create a
timeline for them
so in the instance of the holidays and
um
onboarding clients now and in q1 a lot
of teams are going to have their
onboarding teams overloaded with
training
and implementing new clients so
realistically they may not even be able
to get a date for onboarding until
q2 and almost just drilling that into
their heads by working backwards with
that timeline
any thoughts green yeah i really like
that i
i agree with that wholeheartedly i think
just being
you definitely want to make sure you're
on the same page of your say your
finance team for what you guys can do
with contract start dates and payment
terms and if it's not 14
30 et cetera so don't um don't get too
creative there you do want to get
approval on all those things
um that you can do to try and be more
flexible
if that is the actual objection
and uh one more question here guys let's
see
do you view negotiation as a step in the
process or something that needs to
happen
throughout the whole sales cycle
i'll let either one of you take a stab
at that one
yeah that's a really that's a really
good question i think
uh life is a negotiation when it comes
down to it so i think negotiation is
is there throughout the whole sales
process
we do tend to focus towards the the
finish line
when it's usually around pricing and the
commercial
side of things but there is a lot of
negotiation
at the beginning especially because of
you know in sas
this is something i used to not really
understand as a concept but
a lot of people don't know how to buy
they've never purchased software before
and there is a
good in a bad way an effective and a not
effective way of doing it
and every company is a little bit
different but i think
there are often times when you have to
negotiate you know how you're going to
structure the evaluation because they
not
they might not be familiar with how you
typically
in a perfect world how you would go
about it whether that's setting them up
with a trial
setting up some kind of custom demo so
if they're
if they've never purchased software
before especially you are going to have
to negotiate a lot of things
well before you're at the finish line
they have a proposal in hand and
you know you're haggling over price
i completely agree with that i was going
to ask a question for you megan and then
for you reid
and then we'll wrap up here with just
one or two minutes left um i think
people can really learn
best from when we make mistakes
so do you mind sharing like a story of
where negotiation
maybe went wrong or like a wavy what you
could have done instead
um because i think that's always helpful
for me of like
what not to do in a sense yeah
absolutely um i think and i i've
definitely made probably a lot more
mistakes than some other people
um especially being a bit earlier in my
career than some of the others who may
be on this call
um one mistake that i would find is is
going in with my
my best offer discount every time now i
know that probably sounds so simple
um but you need to know where your
ceiling is and you need to know where
your floor is and
um inevitably your prospect's probably
going to ask you to go somewhere
even lower than that and kind of knowing
where those hard boundaries are i've
definitely made the mistake where okay
i'm
super excited about the deal i feel
excited about it i need it to hit my
quota that month or even for the year
and i go in with my best price and then
i
shoot myself in the foot because if
discounts are the only things that we're
talking about and i'm not
taking advantage of some of my other
negotiation levers i've just shot myself
in the foot
and i've now made the mistake where i
don't even have anything else to give
even when there is that ask and then i'm
the one asking for things
and not my prospect so i've definitely
made that mistake um on the other hand
i still remember one of the first times
with
um from a success story standpoint um
having negotiating it was an in-person
deal
biggest deal in my career and i had
never seen
what we call a tbi of time-based
incentive deployed
and i still remember sitting there and
my manager was in the room with me and
they're like hey can can you meet us at
this number
it's like okay we've proven all the
value and now we're
in this in-person negotiation i don't
really have time to think or ask a
manager or anything like that
and we ended up knowing where that
threshold was and what we could and
couldn't do
um stepped out of the room to make a
call
and stepped back into the room and
secured the deal right there on the spot
so i would just say know your price and
know your floors and know your ceilings
i love that i love the personal stories
like
makes me feel human because i've also
messed up negotiations so
um it looks like i'm being tapped on
time
if you want to connect with us offline
please do so
uh reed and megan can both be found on
linkedin um connect with me as well
follow pandadoc
let's continue the conversation we love
nerding out on everything sales
sales negotiations and just digital
communication in general so
megan reed thank you both so much and
for taking time out of your day
uh we'll let you get back to negotiating
and selling some more panda doc
take it easy guys
[Music]